Implementation details:

So far we only see application layer packets associated with a specific port number.  Here we are dealing with ARP and ICMP which iS NOT application layer.  We would never see these packets with what we were using before. So we need to do things differently.

Create the socket:

socket(AF_PACKET, SOCK_RAW, htons(ETH_P_ALL))

This creates a "packet socket"... instead of recieving TCP or UDP on specific port we say we want to recieve everything having to do with a specific protocol. 

SOCK_RAW:  Says I want ALL of the bytes of the packet.

ETH_P_ALL:  Just give me everything

This gives us a lot of flexibility but do this unless we have root permissions.  So we are going to program on a VM instead of our real computers. 


ssh -Y 

ARP:

Payload consists of 4 addresses:

	1. Hardware of Sender
	2. Hardware of Receiver
	3. Protocol of Sender
	4. Protocol of Receiver


Hardware Type (HTYPE):
	Size: 2 bytes
	Definition: Specifies the network protocol type
	Example: Ethernet = 1

Protocol Type (PTYPE):
	Size: 2 bytes
	Definition: Specifies the internetwork protocol for which the ARP request is intended
	Example: For IPv4 this value = 0x0800

Hardware Length (HLEN):
	Size: 1 byte
	Definition: Length (in octets) of a hardware address
	Example: Ethernet address length is 6(octets)

Protocol Length (PLEN):
	Size: 1 byte
	Definition: Length(in octets) of addresses used in the upper layer protocol specified in PTYPE
	Example: IPv4 address size is 4 octets

Operation (OPER):
	Size: 2 bytes
	Definition: Specifies the operation that the sender is performing
	Example: 1 for request, 2 for reply

Sender Hardware Address (SHA):
	Size: 6 bytes 
	Definition: Media address of the sender
	Example: 
		Request: Indicates the address of the host sending the request
		Reply: Indicates the address of the host that the request was looking for

Sender Protocol Address (SPA):
	Size: 4 bytes
	Definition: Internetwork address of the sender
	Example: 

Target Hardware Address (THA):
	Size: 6 bytes
	Definition: Media address of the intended receiver
	Example:
		Request: This field is ignored
		Reply: Inidicates the address of the host that originated the ARP request

Target Protocol Address (TPA):
	Size: 4 bytes:
	Definition: Internetwork address of the intended receiver
	Example:




Routing Table:
	
	3 Coulumns:
		1. Network Prefix
		2. IP address of a next hop device
		3. Interface

	*Packets matching the prefix should be forwarded on the indicated interface
	*Next hop IP address indicates which device the packet should be forwarded to
	*If no next hop address for a prefix, the packet should be forwarded to destination specified in IP header


sudo dhclient eth1

*to access internet in mininet



*command to copy file 
scp prj3-net.py mininet@192.168.56.101:~/router
